This will be a pretty short video and code demo, as I'm sure you guessed from the title.
I'm going to show you how to completely bypass one of the transformer blocks.
To be honest, I'm not sure if this approach really has a lot of application value because it's a pretty
coarse lesion, but maybe it does have some use.
And anyway, it's a good opportunity to help solidify your understanding of the meaning of the inputs
into the hook functions.
So the idea is that the output from each transformer block is the input to the next transformer block.
What I will show you in this code demo is how to bypass a block completely, such that the output of
block T ends up being the input into block T plus two.
Technically, PyTorch is still going to do all of the calculations in block T plus one, but the hook
that I will implant will replace the output of T plus one with the output of T, and that means that
all the calculations that were done in this transformer block were all for nothing.
So here's how that looks in code.
Here's the hook function.
This is a ludicrously simple function.
There's literally nothing in it.
All I'm doing is returning the input as the output.
So I generated some text to run a forward pass through the model, stored the hidden states, and then
just calculated the matrix norm of the difference in the hidden states between each layer and the previous.
And here you see the impact of implanting this hook over here.
So these numbers here are the matrix norm of the difference between each transformer block and the previous.
And you see that from 6 to 5 we have a norm of zero which means the embeddings vectors did not change
at all as it passed through this layer.
And remember that all of the hidden states actually includes the embeddings matrix as as zero.
So layer five of the transformer block actually corresponds to layer six in the hidden states.
Okay, now I will switch to code and show you in a little bit more detail.
We don't need a lot of fancy libraries for this code demo.
We just need PyTorch and the stuff to import GPT two.
Of course you could use any other model you like here.
So here again is the hook function ridiculously simple?
Basically, all we're doing is saying whatever is the input into the model or into this layer, all
of the calculations, all the attention and MLP adjustments that are taking place inside the transformer
block, and then it eventually spits out some transformed version of the input.
All of that stuff gets completely ignored.
I overwrite it by outputting the input into the model.
And effectively, what that does is tell the transformer to take its input and just directly pass it
along as output, which is the same thing as skipping the layer entirely.
Okay, so run this here.
You see, I'm just implanting this hook into one of the transformer blocks here.
I'm generating some tokens.
There is a lot of liquid water on planet Earth.
Apparently.
That's true.
I read about it on the internet once.
Okay.
And then push those tokens through the model.
Uh, yeah.
11 tokens in that sentence and so on.
And now here I'm looping over all of the hidden state layers from one to the number of hidden state
layers, calculating the difference and then calculating the norm of that difference and just printing
it out.
And here you see that zero that happens.
We get this zero value here because the output equals the input.
And so therefore that layer has been completely skipped over.
The beautiful thing about forward hooks and causal mcinturff research is that it allows you to do really
precise ablations and manipulations.
Cutting out an entire transformer block is much more like a chainsaw than a surgical knife.
So I'm not sure how often you would actually want to do something like this in practice.
That said, I hope you feel that this quick demo increased your understanding of working with hook functions
and the inputs and outputs to the transformer blocks.